# Global Fof

## Summary 
  The genes required for host specific pathogenicity in Fusarium oxysporum can be acquired through horizontal chromosome transfer (HCT). However, it is unknown if HCT commonly contributes to the diversification of pathotypes. Using comparative genomics and pathogenicity phenotyping, we explored the role of HCT in the evolution of F. oxysporum f. sp. fragariae, the cause of Fusarium wilt of strawberry, with isolates from four continents.We observed two distinct syndromes: one syndrome included chlorosis (“yellows- fragariae”) and the other did not (“wilt-fragariae”). All yellows-fragariae isolates carried a predicted pathogenicity chromosome, “chr Y-frag ”, that was horizontally transferred at least four times. Chr Y-frag encoded predicted effectors that were highly up-regulated in planta and was associated with virulence on specific cultivars. Chr Y-frag was not present in wilt-fragariae isolates. Sequence diversity suggests that chr Y-frag was horizontally transferred before the first report of plants affected by yellows-fragariae. Our data support the conclusion that HCT is widespread in F. oxysporum, but pathogenicity can also emerge independently, through convergent evolution. All independent origins of this pathogen occurred outside of the host’s native range, suggesting that susceptibility is due to a lack of co-evolution. Identifying evolutionary relationships within the pathogen population can accelerate the identification of host resistance.
